The next step to all of this is to create the block settings all settings are set inside the object
we pass in as the second argument of the register block type function.
You don't have to name these in any order but we'll start simple and work our way down to the more complex
settings.
The first setting is the title setting before we set this.
Let's check out where this is used in the editor.
Go to your admin dashboard and create a new recipe post.
If we were to view the list of blocks available you'll see that the title appears below.
Each icon something important I want to highlight is that each title is only one or two words you want
to keep your titles short and concise.
If you feel like your title should have a longer name then I still recommend keeping it short.
There is a way to make it easier to search for your block even if there are certain keywords that you
want to include in your title.
I'll talk about that in just a moment.
Let's add the paragraph block the block will appear below.
If you select it you'll see that it appears on the sidebar with a description.
Now that we understand how the title is used in Gutenberg let's set it back inside the editor.
I'm going to set the title to recipe.
I'm going to wrap this with the WP dot I 18 n dot underscore underscore function I'm introducing a new
object here called I 18 n which is short for internationalization.
WordPress provides a way to translate strings with JavaScript all translation related functions are
stored under this object.
The double underscore function is similar to its P P counterpart the first parameter is the string to
translate and the second is the text domain set the text domain to recipe before we move any further.
The way we're using these functions can be simplified.
We're constantly accessing the WP object.
Wouldn't it be nice if we could just type the functions without typing all this out.
Well that's possible with these structuring at the top of the file.
I'm going to create a constant that D structures the WP dot blocks object and grabs only the registered
block type.
Function
I'm going to do the same for the double underscore.
now we can call these functions as is remove this stuff before these functions like so.
This makes our code look cleaner and readable.
Let's keep moving forward the next setting is the description.
This will also be translatable.
Set this to provides a short summary of a recipe
the net setting is category WordPress comes with a few inbuilt categories.
Let's go back to the visual editor and see what they are to see the categories.
You'll have to select the blocks tab.
We have a category for generic or common blocks.
We have another category for formatting and layout which are more design oriented.
We also have widgets for blocks that require assistance from the server to display the content.
There are quite a few blocks here so being able to categorize them will help the user navigate their
way around.
Let's switch back to the editor.
I'm going to add a comment above.
Here are the following categories.
Comment formatting layouts widgets embed for our recipe widget.
We'll be using the category comment the next setting we can set is the icon the icon setting can take
in various values in the resource section of this lecture I provide a link to an icon set called Dash
icons.
Here is what WordPress says about this set dash icons is the official icon fond of the WordPress admin.
As of three point eight you're free to use these icons in your own plugins and themes.
If you scroll down you'll find all the icons available.
You can select any of these and WordPress will provide the full name right here.
You only need to use the keyword after the phrase dash icons dash by default.
WordPress will add this beginning phrase for you.
I'm going to select a random dash icon and copy the name.
Then I'm going to set this as the value for the icon setting.
This is one way of using the setting.
However if you were to switch to the Gutenberg editor then you'll see that WordPress uses dash icons
for their own blocks already.
You're free to reuse a dash icon but you may want to go the other route which is your own custom icon.
WordPress supports SPG icons SPG stands for scalable vector graphics SPG is a type of image just like
PMG or jpeg images.
However unlike other image types SPG is created using code.
There are a lot of benefits to using SPG images.
For one they're scalable you can increase or decrease the size and you will never lose quality.
I will say though the more complex your image is the more resources that image will use.
This makes it perfect for logos icon sets and cartoon character designs since it's made with code.
You also have the ability to adjust the image to your needs creating SPG images with code is not ideal.
I would recommend downloading a program like illustrator to help you generate SPG code.
I provide an alternative solution for getting icons but just keep following along with me.
I have an icon already created this cute little character is called wop doo wop who is the official
mascot for wordpress in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide this file for you.
I've already taken the time to convert this into an SPG image.
Once you have it downloaded create a folder inside the app directory called icons and place it here.
Then open the SPG file inside your editor as you can see SPG is all code.
You can make changes here and they'll be reflected on the image.
However there is a lot of code and it can be really confusing to understand what does what.
I always recommend using a program like illustrator to make changes and then export the final result.
I want you to copy the SPG code.
We're going to paste this in as the value.
There is one problem though.
We want to paste this in as Java sex code but we're not completely sure if it's GSM compatible in the
resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to an SPG to JSA X converter just paste your SPG code on the left and it shouldn't
be converted into G sex compatible code on the right cock with the j sex version and then paste it in
as the value for the icon setting
this should work without a hitch.
Now we have a new problem.
This is making our code look really stuffy and unreadable.
It would be better if we could put this code into its own file.
We can do just that by using modules.
I'm going to undo this paste inside the icons folder create a file named index dot J.S. any icons for
our blocks will be placed here.
I'm going to create a constant named block icons that will be sent to an empty object then I'm going
to create a new property called WAP who instead it to the SPG image
there's a possibility that the JSF X converter may have removed two important attributes called width
and height.
Apply this to the SPG element like so the recommended signs for an SPG image is 20 by 20 to finish things
off.
I'm going to export the block icons as the default
whenever you want to create new icons.
You can just add onto the block icons variable.
Now that we're exporting the icons let's import the icon set which is really just one icon back inside
the recipe block.
I'm going to import the icons file as block icons
the path to the file must be relative.
So you'll need to input dot dot slash icon slash index as I'm doing here.
We could have just put the file in the same directory but I prefer to keep my icons in their own directory
since icons can be used in multiple blocks.
It's up to you in the end.
The last stamp is to just set the icon setting to block icon stopwatch.
Before I move on to the next setting I want to show you some resources for grabbing icons in the resource
section of this lecture.
I provide a link to a site called Flat icon flat icon provides over seventy thousand icons.
They're all free but your acquired two mentioned them in your project.
If you use them they also provide premium icons.
If that's what you're looking for all icons are provided in this Fiji code.
You won't have to make many changes.
Alternatively you can check out the official site for WAP who.
Here you'll find various versions of WAP who and download the SPG code for him.
All right.
That should set the icon the next setting is keywords.
This setting is optional but it will allow users to find your block by using keywords.
This way you don't have to stuff your title with a lot of keywords.
The value for this should be an array of keywords the keywords our input will be food ingredients meal
type
I've taken the time to translate them as well.
Something I want to know is that you're limited by the number of keywords you can input.
WordPress will only allow a limit of three keywords.
However you can bypass this by making one keyword really long.
This isn't strictly enforced.
So I would recommend you don't abuse this.
It would just be a bad user experience if a user types a word that isn't related to your block then
it would force them to have to scroll through other blocks in order to find what they're looking for.
You want to keep it relevant.
All right let's move forward the next setting is supports the supports setting works similar to the
ad theme support function except it's specific to the editor itself.
Gutenberg will add features to your block that you have the ability to enable or disable in the resource
section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the block API handbook page.
If you scroll down you'll find information on how to use the supports setting.
Let's go through some of them quickly.
The anchor feature will allow users to input links in your block and Gutenberg will convert them into
HCM l links the custom class name setting will allow users to attach custom CSF classes to your block
for whatever reason.
Lastly there's the h t l feature which will allow users to edit the H team l generated by your block.
You may want to disable this feature if your block generates complex h l.
Let's use this back inside the editor.
I'm going to set the H team l property to False the h t email will be creating won't be that complex
but it will require to be structured in a certain way which is a valid reason to turn off H GM out the
next setting is save the value for this will be an arrow function.
The function must return J a sex code.
I'm going to return a paragraph tag with the text.
Hello world
the safe setting is what gets rendered on the editor and on the page.
We're finished.
There are more settings than this but these are the minimum requirements for a block.
Obviously this won't do much but it's a start.
Save your changes and open the command line.
Make sure to see deep into the blocks directory then run the command NPM run Dev.
Lastly refresh the Gutenberg editor.
I would recommend opening your developer tools and checking for any errors.
Go up to the top left corner and add a block if you are to view the common category.
Then you should find the block with the warp to icon.
Perfect.
This is exactly what we wanted before I had this block.
Let's test to see if the keywords worked.
I'm going to type in food and that should make our recipe block appear.
We also had a keyword called meal type but let's just type and type as you can see the recipe block
appears.
Even though we didn't type in the full keyword once again it's fine to have multiple words in a keyword
but you don't want to stuff it as that would provide a terrible user experience.
All right let's add this block it should appear inside the content with the block selected.
You should see the settings up here for the block.
We see the icon title and description.
You're also provide a custom field for any custom see asset classes by default Gutenberg will enable
the custom class name feature for you if you want to turn this off.
Then add this to your supports object and set it to false.
I'm perfectly fine with it so I'll leave it as is.
Congrats you successfully created your first block we've covered the first four steps in the process.
We prepare the environment and cue the files registered the block and created the block settings.
We even rendered the block with that being said the block we created doesn't do much.
It's just a plain and simple block in the next few lectures.
We're going to make this more dynamic and provide a UI to edit the block.